# Mazes

**Course Website**: https://course.ccs.neu.edu/cs2510/

## Introduction
This is a maze game where players must try to escape by navigating their way
from the top-left of the maze to the bottom-right. Each maze is different, and
there are mazes of all different sizes.

## How to Play
You are the green square in the top-left corner. The objective is to reach the
pink square in the bottom-right corner. You navigate your player using the arrow
keys. If you want to generate a different maze to play, you can press "R" to
reset the game. If you want to solve the maze using depth-first search (DFS),
press "D". 

As you move, your path will be highlighted in light green.

![Highlighted green path](Screenshots/midplay.png)

Similarly, if you choose to have the maze solved for you, the path of the search
will be highlighted in light blue.

![Highlighted blue path](Screenshots/dfs.png)

## How to Change Map Dimensions
The maze can be resized by changing the `MAZE_HEIGHT` and `MAZE_WIDTH` variables
in the `Maze` class.

![10x20 maze](Screenshots/maze_10x20.png)

*Example 10x20 Maze*

![50x80 maze](Screenshots/maze_50x80.png)

*Example 50x80 Maze*

![100x100 maze](Screenshots/maze_100x100.png)

*Example 100x100 Maze*

## Classes/Methods
The player class has two fields: `Vertex position`, which keeps track of the
player’s position according to the `Vertex` that s/he is on, and `IList<Vertex>
visited`, which is updated in the `Maze` class with the player’s previous
position each time the player moves (so that the path can be highlighted along
the way).

The `Vertex` class has four `Edge` fields, which correspond to the four out
edges from this `Vertex`, and an `ArrayList<Vertex> adj` field, which holds the
four vertices surrounding this `Vertex`. Since each `Vertex` only needs to
render a right edge and a down edge to form a complete grid, each `Vertex` also
has two `boolean` fields, which correspond to these two edges and are `true` if
that edge should be rendered. The `int x` and `int y` fields keep track of this
`Vertex`’s position on the board in logical coordinates, with the origin at the
top-left corner of the screen. Lastly, the `boolean isVisited` field is used
when creating the `hashmap` for the DFS.

The `Edge` class contains a `Vertex from`, a `Vertex to`, and an `int weight`.

In the `Maze` class, each `Vertex` is first initialized with a position
(`initVertices()`). Next, the right and down edges for each `Vertex` is
initialized (`initVertEdges()`), and the `ArrayList<Edge>` returned is set as
the worklist. `randomWeights()` randomizes the weights of the edges in the
worklist for `unionFind()`. After performing `unionFind()`, `fixVertEdges()`
fixes the `boolean`s of each `Vertex` to indicate which edges should be drawn.
`fixVertAdj()` sets the neighboring vertices of each `Vertex` for DFS to run
properly. `search()` performs the search, and it takes in either a `Stack` or a
`Queue`, depending on the search (which is set in `onKey()`). `fixPlayer()`
fixes the edges of the player's current `Vertex` so that the player cannot walk
through walls.

